Numenticaís response to FEDBANK FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITEDResponse for DATA ANALYTICS PLATFORM MODERNIZATION
PROJECTContents TOC \o "1-3" \h \z \u 1.
Executive Summary PAGEREF _Toc168516899 \h 3 2.
About Numentica PAGEREF _Toc168516900 \h 3 3.
Project Scope PAGEREF _Toc168516901 \h 3 3.1.
Current Data Flow Process in Datalake PAGEREF _Toc168516902 \h 3 3.2.
Key Challenges within the Existing System Landscape PAGEREF _Toc168516903 \h 3 3.3.
Limitations of the Current Datalake Architecture PAGEREF _Toc168516904 \h 5 4.
Numenticaís Solution PAGEREF _Toc168516905 \h 5 4.1.
Proposed Architecture PAGEREF _Toc168516906 \h 5 4.2.
Mitigation of Present Challenges PAGEREF _Toc168516907 \h 5 4.3.
Business Benefits PAGEREF _Toc168516908 \h 5 4.4.
Further Recommendations for Optimal State Architecture PAGEREF _Toc168516909 \h 6 4.5.
Technology Criteria &amp; Recommendation PAGEREF _Toc168516910 \h 6 5.
Detailed Commercials PAGEREF _Toc168516911 \h 6Executive SummaryAbout NumenticaProject Scope Current Data Flow Process
in DatalakeKey Challenges within the Existing System Landscape1) Not all DBs are integrated in datalake.e.g.
they have a file tracking system which has information about what loans are disbursed and that is sent to some agency.
They donít have any reporting requirements for this hence it is not brought to datalake.e.g.
Digital team has separate DBs for Vendor Management System, Lead Management System, Legal, ERM (Internal software for
enquiries), app/website.
These are small tables hence not yet moved to datalake.2) Primary Key-Reference key column names are different between
tables in Finnone.
This is because of how Finnone source system sends the data.
So, unless someone knows the Finnone system it is difficult to understand the relationship between tables.3) Even though
all raw tables are fetched in datalake for Finnone and Lcode, still the source system is hit to generate dumps which are
used by analytics team to for reporting in Altair.
This is because it is difficult for Analytics team to understand the structure of core system tables AND not all columns
from raw tables are important for their reports.
4) Datalake tables do not have indexing (only some tables have as per need basis).
Source system Finnone and Lcode have indexing.
5) Frequent changes in the queries from Finnone and Lcode because of change in business requirements.
Adhoc reports during audit time are also needed.
This involves dependency on source system.
6) For LCODE, the Fedfina team does not have direct access to source system.
They pass on the BRD to LCODE vendor and are completely dependent on the vendor to create query.7) Additional overhead
for Analytics team to maintain the Lampstack DB.
Some business users provide data like budget files, HR related files using upload option.
For these separate tables are created in Lampstack DB.Additional data processing is done by Analytics team on top of the
views exposed via datalake like merging of some dumps, logic creation.
All this happens in MYSQL workbench of Lampstack DB.For any trend analysis reports where past data is required,
Lampstack DB is used for storage of old data.
8) Data issues in the views exposed from datalake to Analytics team.
This is mainly due to incorrect queries written by source systems while generating dumps.
9) Issues while reading data from Datalake to Altair.
This is due to JDBC connector issue.
10) Changes and new report requests from Altair are very common.
Everytime they have a dependency on IT team to provision that data in datalake first before they can do further
processing to generate the required report.
11) Currently reports are generated from S3, Datalake views, ALTAIR, Power BI, SSRS both manually and automatically.
There is no centralized system and process for reporting.
Everything should be done from Altair.
Additional Opportunities of Automation/Optimization1) Etouch schema in datalake is a customer servicing system.
Dashboards created from etouch schema are sent via email.
NOT AUTOMATED THROUGH ALTAIR.2) Fedfina bureau schema in datalake holds cibil related information.
Risk analysis reports are created from this system on need basis by running queries.
NOT AUTOMATED THROUGH ALTAIR.3) Interactive dashboards are generated from Salesforce source system directly.
They want to do that from Datalake.4) SSRS and Power BI are also used for reporting.
Everything should move to Altair (already in plan)5) AL and ML models to be built for advanced analytics in reports
(already in plan)Limitations of the Current Datalake ArchitectureWe should be covering below points for this section:Is
it even correct to call their existing system as a datalake?How is it not an ideal datalake architecture?
Compare with other NBFCs how they are designing their datalake.What is the impact Fedfina will have by not having an
ideal datalake architecture?What is Fedfina losing by not having Data Governance setup?Numenticaís Solution Proposed
ArchitectureMitigation of Present ChallengesHave to mention how the proposed architecture solves each of the above
mentioned challenges.Business Benefits For all the challenges that will be solved by Numenticaís solution, what would be
the business benefit e.g.
increase in customer acquisition rate, customer retention, marketing would improve, data-driven decision making
etc.Further Recommendations for Optimal State ArchitectureData Governance can be part of this section.Technology
Criteria &amp; RecommendationAll the AWS services as part of the proposed architecture can be described here with its
use and benefits.If we are planning to recommend anything other than AWS then a comparative study can be put
here.Detailed CommercialsIt will be a T&amp;M based contract.Additional information as requested ñ No.
of queries and its complexity for each dashboardDepends on the report requirement.
Majorly merging of views like views having risk data is merged with views having HR data AND logic implementation like
how much old data is needed, department level filteration, product level filteration etc.
Complexity of queries ñ MediumData volumeDepends on how much old data is required by the department in which report.
As of now one of the risk reports have Maximum data volume of 30-40 lakh.No.
of dashboards4-5 Power BI reports are moved to Altair that take around 2-3 hours to prepare.60-70 management reports go
monthly via AltairDaily no.
if reports ñ Need to checkNo.
of views they are using40-50 dumps from Finnone and 40-50 dumps from Lcode on a daily basis.Maximum no.
of views used in a single dashboard query ñ Need to checkFrequency of dashboardDaily reports go at 8 AM IST via
scheduler through emailMonthly reports are also thereFrequency from Glue to DatalakeDaily between 1-7 AM IST all glue
jobs runNo.
of Glue jobs that run every dayOnly Infra team can confirm.
Do not have visibility.Resourcing Cost: Project Phase Resources Location Total Cost Requirement Gathering Design
Implementation UAT Go-Live Training and Support Post Go-live Support Timelines in Gantt ChartFedfina Resourcesí Support:
Project Phase Team # of Resources Timelines #of Hours Requirement Gathering Design Implementation UAT Go-Live Training
and Support Post Go-live Support Software Services Cost: Product Price/month Estimated Monthly DBU's
